# Decolonizing Scholarly Communications through Bibliodiversity

**January 7, 2021**

From Zenodo, downloaded 26.4.2021 for reposting on GenR
<https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4423997>

Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode>

Reposted here 27.4.2021
<https://genr.eu/wp/decolonizing-scholarly-communications-through-bibliodiversity/>

1.  **Kathleen Shearer**, Executive Director, Confederation of Open Access
    Repositories (COAR)

2.  **Arianna Becerril-García,** Executive Director, Redalyc.org and President,
    AmeliCA, Conocimiento Abierto S.C

**Note:** *This short form article was originally accepted to be published in a
Special Open Access Edition in the journal, Development and Change, however, was
withdrawn by the authors due to unacceptable licensing conditions proposed by
the publisher.*

## ABSTRACT

Diversity is an important characteristic of any healthy ecosystem. In the field
of scholarly communications, diversity in services and platforms, funding
mechanisms and evaluation measures will allow the ecosystem to accommodate the
different workflows, languages, publication outputs and research topics that
support the needs of different research communities. Diversity also reduces the
risk of vendor lock-in, which leads to monopolization and high prices. Yet this
‘bibliodiversity’ is undermined by the fact that researchers around the world
are evaluated according to journal-based citation measures, which have become
the major currency of academic research. Journals seek to maximize their
bibliometric measures by adopting editorial policies that increase citation
counts, resulting in the predominance of Northern/Western research priorities
and perspectives in the literature, and an increasing marginalization of
research topics of more narrow or local nature. This contribution examines the
distinctive, non-commercial approach to open access (OA) found in Latin America
and reflects on how greater diversity in OA infrastructures helps to address
inequalities in global knowledge production as well as knowledge access. The
authors argue that bibliodiversity, rather than adoption of standardized models
of OA, is central to the development of a more equitable system of knowledge
production.

## files

Source

source/Decolonizing Scholarly Communications through Bibliodiversity-1.pdf

source/Decolonizing Scholarly Communications through Bibliodiversity-1.docx

source/Decolonizing Scholarly Communications through Bibliodiversity-1.md
